Support configurable tedge-mapper MQTT topics (#2033)
thin-edge/thin-edge.io: docs/src/operate/configuration/config-mapper-mqtt-topics.md

# How to configure MQTT topics to subscribe for mappers

The cloud-specific mappers subscribe to the reserved MQTT topics and convert incoming MQTT messages to cloud-specific messages.
In an advanced use case, such as using more than one cloud mappers for the same device,

> you may want to customize the MQTT topics that each cloud mapper subscribes to.

Reviewer: Though doesn't this setting more control which tedge topics are subscribe to by each mapper, and not the data coming from each cloud?

Author: True. For example, `c8y/s/us` is not a candidate to be configured by tedge-mapper-c8y.

The `tedge config` command and the keys `c8y.topics`, `az.topics`, and `aws.topics` are usable for this use-case.

```admonish note
This guide uses `c8y.topics`, `TEDGE_C8Y_TOPICS`, and `tedge-mapper-c8y.service` as an example.
For other cloud mappers, use the keys in the table.
```

| Cloud          | tedge config key | Environmental variable | systemctl service        |
|----------------|------------------|------------------------|--------------------------|
| Cumulocity IoT | c8y.topics       | TEDGE_C8Y_TOPICS       | tedge-mapper-c8y.service |
| Azure IoT      | az.topics        | TEDGE_AZ_TOPICS        | tedge-mapper-az.service  |
| AWS IoT        | aws.topics       | TEDGE_AWS_TOPICS       | tedge-mapper-aws.service |

## Check the subscribed MQTT topics

First, check which MQTT topics are subscribed by a cloud mapper. Run:

```shell
tedge config get c8y.topics
```

> 

Reviewer: An example response might be useful for the user to know what to expect.

Author: Added

## Set the desired new MQTT topics

If you want to change the subscribed MQTT topics, use `tedge config set`.
For example, if you want the Cumulocity IoT mapper to subscribe only `tedge/measurements` and `tedge/measurements/+` topics,
the command to run should be as below.

```shell
sudo tedge config set c8y.topics tedge/measurements,tedge/measurements/+
```

Alternatively, you can use the environmental variable.
The value set by environmental variable overrides the value set by `tedge config set`.

```shell
export TEDGE_C8Y_TOPICS=tedge/measurements,tedge/measurements/+
```

```admonish note
If an invalid MQTT topic is given, a mapper will ignore it.
```

> To take effect, a process restart is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The service must be restarted for the setting to take effect.
```

> If you use `systemctl` as init system and restart Cumulocity IoT mapper, run as below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following command shows how to restart the Cumulocity IoT mapper on a device using systemd as the init system.
```

```shell
sudo systemctl restart tedge-mapper-c8y.service
```

## Change back to the default topics

If you want a mapper to subscribe back to the default MQTT topics, run:

```shell
sudo tedge config unset c8y.topics
```

> Then restart the corresponding mapper process as you changed the topic configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then restart the corresponding mapper.
```
